=head1 NAME

Using Vim 6 to develop Perl software

=head1 ABSTRACT

This presentation features Vim 6 and several Vim plugins which create a 
productive Perl Integrated Development Environment (IDE).  Usage of key 
features of each plugin is demonstrated.

This document is the notes from a talk I gave at the SF Perl Users Group
meeting on March 28th, 2006.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 Vim the editor

=over 4

=item B<url>

http://www.vim.org

=item B<history>

Vim is an improved version of the vi editor (Vi IMproved).  
It's primary author is Bram Moolenaar, there are several contributing authors.

:help credits - full authorship detail.

=item B<future>

Vim 7 is just around the corner.  See the development page for details.

http://www.vim.org/develop.php

=item B<scripts>

http://www.vim.org/scripts/index.php

Lots of useful plugins which you can use to customize vim to your needs.

=item B<basics>

 :help - general help

 :help buffer - help on a specific command

 :bwipeout - close current buffer

 :buffers - show list of buffers

 :b4 - bring buffer 4 to the front

 :split - split the window

 :next filename.pm - open or create a file in a new buffer

 v - visual mode - highlight sections of code easily

 i - insert mode - used for editing

 esc - command mode
 If you get lost just click ESC three times and say
 "There's no place like command mode..."

 :wq - write and quit

 :q - just quit

 :69 - jump to line number 69
 
 recovery - when starting vim if a swap file exists you can 
 recover or delete the swap file.  To learn this in a safe 
 environment, open up a vim window, type something, save, type 
 some more, then kill -9 the vim process.  Upon re-opening the 
 file you can recover the content that you entered after the save.

 .vimrc - many examples on the web, we won't discuss this 
 too deeply if at all.  See my .vimrc alongside this source file.
 
=back

=head2 Perl IDE

=over 4

=item B<perl-support>

http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=556

Lots of useful plugins which you can use to customize vim to your needs.
Most are easy to install, I'll demonstrate four of them today.

Author is Dr.-Ing.Fritz Mehner.  He answered several questions I had regarding
perl-support.

=over 4

=item B<installation>

Download the latest version (2.9.1 at the time of this writing)

Move it to .vim

Unzip it

Read README.perlsupport

:help ~/.vim/doc/perl-support.txt  - loads the help file

:help perl-support

Write some Perl.

=item B<templates>

Start with .pl, .t, and .pm templates.  Save yourself a bunch of bookkeeping
work yet have complete, well documented and structured starting points.

 :next foo.pod   <== TODO
 :next foo.t
 :next foo.pm
 :next foo.pl

Please note that these commands should be invoked in that order first to last
for test driven development practices. [1]

=item B<syntax check>

Convenient macro for syntax checking the buffer contents.

 \rs

=item B<perltidy>

Don't worry about indenting, just write the code.  Then clean it up with this.
Run it often, it helps you to see what's going on.

 \ry

=item B<perlrun>

Run your program.  Something didn't go quite as planned?  Try the debugger.

 \rr

=item B<perldebug>

Step right into the perl debugger.  Works best in GUI mode (gvim).  Suggested
usage is to open the file from a shell in GUI mode, there is an intermittent bug
which prevents the debugger xterm window opening sometimes if you load a new
buffer then invoke the debugger.

Or you can use one window per project, the debugger xterm should open cleanly
in that case.

 \rd
 
=item B<perlcritic>

What would the Damian think of what you have written?  If you run this command
and the result is 'no critique', then you are using best coding practices.

 \rc

=item B<profiling>

Ah you wrote something and it works but it needs to be faster?  No problem!
Devel::SmallProf to the rescue.  Scroll to the bottom of the profiler
buffer for the relevant info
 
 \rm

=item B<pod>

Need to see how your POD looks or consult the man page for a module?

 \h - use module name, or position cursor over keyword

=item B<other hotkeys>

There are various other key combos which you can use to insert code snippets,
etc.  A pdf is included of all mappings.

=item B<installation>

Download the latest version

Move it to .vim

Unzip it

:help ~/.vim/doc/perl-support.txt  - loads the help file

Write some Perl.

=back

=item B<autocomplete>

http://vim.sourceforge.net/tips/tip.php?tip_id=102

Bye bye RSI.  Less typing means less chance of injury.  Declare a variable, then
you won't have to type it out fully again.  Builds a corpus of terms on the fly
from all open buffers.  This will save you millions of keystrokes over a 
lifetime.

=item B<taglist>

http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=273

NOTE - thanks to http://use.perl.org/~rhesa for pointed out that I was actually
using taglist.vim here, not ctags.  My bad.  See the additional resources
section for the link to ctags.vim.

"One buffer to rule them all"

 :TlistToggle

Watch in awe as classes with dozens of methods suddenly 
become manageable.

ctrl+w left-arrow  jumps the cursor to the tag index.  
Hit enter when you are over the tag of interest to jump it to 
focus in the current buffer.

Fold sections to keep the big picture in view.

Press ? to view help.

Press u to update tag list.

Press q to quit the taglist window.

Type :bwipeout when you're done with a buffer and ctags conveniently provides
the index as the next user step.

=item B<version control>

CVS - http://vim.sourceforge.net/scripts/script.php?script_id=90

:CVSAdd

:CVSCommit

:CVSDiff

SVN - http://vim.sourceforge.net/scripts/script.php?script_id=922

:SVNAdd

:SVNCommit

:SVNDiff

=item B<CPAN>

Use the bang operator to install modules from vim

:!cpan -i PPI

=back

=head1 TODO

=over 4

=item B<pod>

Template for .pod files.

=back

=head1 SOURCE

Latest changes to this document may be found at:

https://www.redhotpenguin.com/svn/vim

=head1 ADDITIONAL RESOURCES

=over 4

=item B<dotvimrc>

  http://pdx.pm.org/kwiki/index.cgi?VimRCFile

  Thanks to Eric Wilhelm for this link to the PDX .vimrc collection.

=item B<ctags> 

The real ctags plugin, this presentation mistakenly covered taglist.vim instead.

Thanks to Rhesa@use.perl.org for the spot
 
http://vim.sourceforge.net/scripts/script.php?script_id=12
http://ctags.sourceforge.net/

=back

=head1 BUGS

Hopefully none, report any to the maintainer

=head1 LICENSE

This document is licensed under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

  Fred Moyer <fred@redhotpenguin.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

  Copyright 2006 Red Hot Penguin Consulting LLC

=head1 REFERENCES

=over 4

=item B<1> - suggested test driven development methodology

  Write some docs describing the business and technical goals.

  Write some tests.

  Run the tests.

  Watch the tests fail.

  Write a Perl module.  

  Run the tests.  

  Watch the tests pass.

  Write a program which implements the library methods.

  Watch your program run without bugs.

  Achieve 100% test coverage using Devel::Cover

  Optimize if performance requirements have not been met.

=back

=cut
